It’s official, Black Leopards will be campaigning in the Absa Premiership Division when the activities for the new season start in the second week of August! Whatever happens in the last promotional playoff match between Jomo Cosmos and Platinum Stars at the Vosloorus Stadium tomorrow afternoon has nothing to do with that reality. Lidoda Duvha secured a place in the elite division after beating Jomo Cosmos 1-0 at the Thohoyandou Stadium on Wednesday afternoon. Karabo Tshepe’s 25th minute goal was good enough for Black Leopards to say goodbye to the National First Division. The Thohoyandou outfit did not taste the pain of losing a match in their promotional playoff campaign. They won two of their matches and played to a draw on two occasions to finish on top of the three-team league log with eight points. Some of the dignitaries who attended Wednesday’s game against Cosmos include Premier Stan Mathabatha, King Toni Mphephu-Ramabulana, EFF Commander in Chief, Julius Malema and the mayor of the Thulamela Local municipality, Cllr Avhashoni Tshifhango. The chairman of the Premier Soccer League, Dr Irvin Khoza, was one of the first people to congratulate Black Leopards. “Let me take this opportunity to welcome Black Leopards to the Premiership Division,” said Khosa in a telephone interview shortly after Leopards’ victory. The club’s chairman, Mr David Thidiela, was quick to say “thank you” to the residents of Vhembe, who were behind the team even at the times when their days were dark. The MEC for Sports and Recreation, Ms Onicca Moloi, said that her department will assist Black Leopards with accommodation and other logistical arrangements. According to her the other Limpopo based PSL clubs, Polokwane City and Baroka FC have been enjoying these benefits in the past years. She said that she was delighted that there are three PSL clubs in the province following Black Leopards’ promotion. Mr Eric Muneri, president of the Limpopo Sports Confederations, said that they always knew that Leopards were going to make it in the promotional playoffs. He added that Leopards should always count on their support. The team’s captain, Marks Munyai, said that they appreciate the support they got from the management, supporters and the coach, Mr Joel Masutha, throughout the season.   His words were echoed by the team’s top goal scorer, Mwape Musonda. Musonda scored 14 goals in the team’s 30 league matches this season. Four of the six goals Lidoda Duvha scored in the four promotional playoff matches were scored by Musonda. The brain behind the team’s success, Mr Joel “The Prophet” Masutha, attributed the team’s promotion to the top-flight division as the product of the good relationship between himself, the players and the management. He stated that they are going to take a short break and come back to start with their preparations for a new life in the premiership division.