The young Radzambo Matsila jetted off to the United State of America (USA) last Friday to represent Africa in the All Africa Student Convention (AASC) artist competition. The event started earlier this week. Matsila participated in an event at Eunice High School in Bloemfontein in October last year and finished in second position. He is a Grade 8 pupil at El Baruch Academy at Levubu. The AASC is an annual event where pupils from across Africa and Scandinavia come to compete in events in various categories, among others academics, arts, sport, music, speech, drama and dance. It can be described as a mini Olympics for pupils in schools using the Accelerated Christian Education (ACE) system and Christian schools. Pupils who excel in their events are elected to attend the International Student Convention (ISC), which is held in the USA once a year. A teacher at El Baruch Academy, Ms Andurette Roos described Matsila as a very dedicated learner and said she had no doubt that he would hoist the country's flag very high. "We are greatly humbled and we are very confident that he will bring back a wealth of knowledge to share with us back here," she said. Radzambo Matsila urged other learners not to take competitions for granted, as they are platforms that could open opportunities for them to shine in the outside world. "This is the best thing to have happened in my life, and I will make use of this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. I will come back and share what I will get there with the rest of my country," he said. “I am fortunate as a young rural boy to be chosen to represent SA overseas. It never crossed my mind that I would one day fly overseas. I am so excited,” he said. He said it was not easy for him, but he succeeded because he was dedicated. “I receive extreme support from family and friends, as they have helped a lot. The competition has pushed me to train harder. It was my goal to make it,” he said. His father, Chief Livhuwani Matsila, said he was very happy for his son to represent SA. “As the family, we are proud of the volume of hard work he has put in. It has paid off. He is a strong artist and his ability has helped him realise that his dream is possible,” he said.