Residents of Mukula outside Thohoyandou, who have been without a chief for the past five years, were in a celebratory mood on Saturday. A new and very young traditional leader, Chief Muvhango Christian Takalani, was installed to replace his late father, Chief Victor Lufuno Nkhwathiseni Takalani Tshivhase. The new leader, who is only 16 years old and a Grade 11 learner at Eric Louw High School in Musina, was named Chief Mpfuneni Takalani Tshivhase. As tradition dictates, the new chief’s duties will be performed by elders until he comes of age. His assistant, or Ndumi, is Milingoni Takalani, while Tshifaro Takalani was named the Khadzi (sister). The installation, which was officiated by the senior traditional leader from the Tshivhase Royal House, took place in a big tent erected at the entrance to the royal palace at Mukula. The ceremony was attended by many chiefs such as Vho-Thovhela Nethengwe, Rambuda, Nelwamondo, Makuya, Ramovha, Tshikonelo, Tshikundamalema, Netshimbupfe, Manenzhe and Tshikundamalema. An entourage from CONTRALESA also arrived, along with government officials, pastors and many community members. Dr Stanley Radzilani blessed the new chief and gave him a present in the form of a Bible. As per custom, an entertaining tshikona dance - led by Mailausumbwa Tshivhase and the new chief - followed the installation. In installing the new chief, Mailausumbwa Kennedy Tshivhase urged the community, including the elders, to rally around and support the new incumbent. SANCO leader Mr Hulisani Mabasa and Mr Shonisani Tshisevhe pledged to support the new chief like they did with his late father. On behalf of CONTRALESA Vhembe, Prince Gulukhulu Mathebula said they were excited as an organization to witness the historic installation of the young chief. “In you we see a prospective member who will join us very soon. Join us and together we will work for the development of our communities. With us you will learn many things,” he said. Vhembe Executive Mayor Florence Radzilani, who worked with the new chief’s late father while she was the MEC for the police, also welcomed the new chief and pledged to work with him.